**How to become a software engineer?**

You might have seen a person sitting alone in front of a computer (maybe nerdy) all day in front of a black screen doing some mathematical calculation (sounds boring…??) or you might have pictured someone like Mark Zuckerberg, Sundar Pichai or Bill Gates. Whatever you picture in your head you can’t deny the fact that even if a software engineer seems to be a boring person (they aren’t actually), these people are still considered as the smartest, intelligent and coolest people in the world. Technology is solving a lot of issues in the world. Thousand of workers’ efforts can be reduced in a company by just introducing software to them. These all are the reasons a lot of people wants to become a software engineer or developer and they love to help people by building something that can solve their problems. Software Engineering is one of the highest-paid jobs in the world but you really need a lot of patience, constant learning and constant improvement in this field. For newbies, it’s difficult to find out where to start and what would be the best path to become a software developer or engineer. We are going to discuss some options and a general path that will help you to enter in this industry as a programmer but understand that there is no single path to becoming a software engineer.

Pursue Computer Science Related Fields and Degree This is one of the traditional ways that most of the students follow to pursue software engineering. A lot of students choose a bachelor’s degree program in computer science, they study in-depth theoretical concepts of computer science subjects which helps them to understand the principle of software engineering. Data Structures, Algorithms, Web Technology, Computer Networks, Mathematics, Database System, Programming Languages and a lot of major subjects help students to have a comprehensive understanding of software engineering and modern approaches of software development. A lot of employers set the eligibility criteria of four years bachelor’s degree program in the computer science field so pursuing a degree is a great choice but you shouldn’t rely on a degree only. All those subjects are not going to give you practical exposure or working on real-time projects. You can’t say someone that you have enrolled for the course to become a software engineer until or unless you won’t have practical exposure. To become a developer or software engineer you need to use your theoretical knowledge and concepts practically working on some real software. You need to showcase your practical skills to the recruiter and we will talk about what you should do apart from theoretical knowledge in upcoming points.
